---
title: "Attending my first developer conference"
pubDate: 2024-06-02
author: "Simon Saberian"
tags: ["personal", "conferences"]
---

Last year, after graduating with a bachelor's degree in software
engineering, I got my first 'real' job as a DevOps engineer at an
industry company in the area. It has been a great experience, but there
is, of course, that feeling of "faking it," humming in the background
like that fan you have on in your bedroom—feeling that I managed to
trick everyone into believing I was a competent worker who could succeed
in my role.

Well.. it seems I haven’t been exactly *un*successful at my job because
I got the opportunity to go on a paid trip to [DevSum](https://www.devsum.se)
in Stockholm with some of my colleagues! So, with nerves bubbling in my
stomach, I packed my bags and set off.

Having been raised a man in a patriarchal society, if there is one thing
I am good at, it’s repressing emotions, so walking up to the conference
floor I managed to keep cool. The organizers served breakfast and
coffee, which was nice since I sadly missed the hotel’s continental
breakfast that morning. After some chatting, we sat down for the
keynote, but I was more excited about the talks, so once it was over, I
hurried over to my first talk of the day.

I attended eleven talks throughout the conference, and here are some
thoughts I had about a few of them! I’ll try to provide links to
recordings of the talks whenever I can.

## Let’s talk talks

### “Embracing Neurodiversity in Tech” - Jonathan Fielding

[Recording to the talk](https://youtu.be/1iQM0Uw4rms)

This talk was one of my favorites at the conference. Jonathan talked
about what people with conditions like ADHD and autism go through and
what support systems workplaces can set up to help them. He also
mentioned how some of the ways neurodiverse people are different aren’t
necessarily negatives but can be a strength, such as people with ADHD
not just being ‘impulsive’ but more inclined to try new things. Having
been interested in accessibility for a while now, I was happy to hear
about more ways to be inclusive and support people. There were some
things I had never even thought about, like the background color of text
impacting the reading ability of people with dyslexia!

Sadly, only a handful of people showed up for this one, which is an
incredible shame because, according to the StackOverflow survey 2022, a
substantial portion of developers are neurodivergent, and companies are
doing them a massive disservice if they’re not giving them the support
they need.

Often, support systems help disabled people as well as non-disabled
people. For example, a wheelchair ramp isn’t just for disabled people
but also for parents with strollers, bicyclists, or people who struggle
with steps, like the elderly or young children. Similarly, neurotypical
people can also use the support systems Jonathan mentioned if they need
the same help.

This topic is really important, and I hope you check out his talk.

### “Honey, I shrunk the backlog” - Allan Kelly

[Recording to the talk](https://youtu.be/2Vfv7vErrlI)

Wow, what an incredible speaker Allan is! He just exudes so much
positive energy that keeps you engaged throughout, and I can’t wait to
hear another one of his talks. This talk was about how product backlogs
are not as helpful as your scrum master might make them out to be. He
mentions that you should nuke your product backlog every three months
and reassess what should be there based on your business goals and
missions. Filling your backlog based on your goals sounds obvious when
you spell it out, but it is probably not implemented in practice by
those who say they do agile.

This talk was a real highlight for me, and what made it extra memorable
was how Allan used his body language to accentuate his points! It was
entertaining to watch, and I can’t wait to see what he has next.

### “Open Source Exploitation” - David Whitney

[Recording to the talk](https://youtu.be/9YQgNDLFYq8)

David hit the nail on the head with this one. Most people take it for
granted that open-source libraries are provided free of charge and allow
you to use them in any way you like, even to make money yourself. Cloud
providers rely on being able to charge for open-source software like
Redis or Docker without paying the original developers for their work.
Isn’t it unbelievable how normalized this exploitation is? Nowhere else
is it normal for companies to profit from someone else’s free labor? I
hope that someday, a package manager for a major language implements a
billing system so that devs can *actually be paid* for their work.
According to David, Nuget was supposed to have one, but Microsoft sadly
removed it before launch. Check this one out if you have the time!

### “Those "Business People" - they just don't get me! - how to talk IT to non-IT leaders” - Hannah Engel

[Hannah's LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/trainerengel/)

Communicating technical concepts to non-technical people has always been
something I’ve wanted to improve, so when I saw it on the agenda, I knew
I had to check it out. I’m glad I did too! She was super entertaining
and engaging to listen to. At one point, she had us turn to our right
and discuss with the person sitting next to us, which I didn’t expect
but made it more memorable. I had a great time with this one and if you
can attend one of her talks, I highly recommend it!

## Some cool peeps

I’m generally pretty shy and find it a little difficult to approach
people I think are cool, so I didn’t make many connections this time.
One of the people I found a bit easier to approach was Jonathan, who
gave the first talk I mentioned. I had a few chats with him, and he was
delightful. We talked a bit about autism and how neurodivergent people
generally like to hang around other neurodivergents. I have some
suspicions about being on the spectrum, so this might explain why I
found it a bit easier to talk with him and why a lot of people close to
me, like my boyfriend and some of my best friends, are autistic.

Another person I had the pleasure of speaking with was one of the
organizers! We talked a little about the after-party later that evening,
and I mentioned that I was excited about dancing. She said she’d be
looking forward to seeing me there, and I didn’t think much of it but
came to find out that when I showed up at the entrance a bit later than
the others, she had been waiting for me to show up. We chatted a little,
but it was cut short by dinner being served. People stood around in
their little cliques, which intimidated me a bit so I ended up not
talking to anyone even though I wanted to.

After a while, I started to get bored, but I happened to spot the lady
from before! So we started dancing and even convinced my colleagues and
others to join. But then the DJ started to play a bunch of Greek dancing
music that killed my vibe, so that’s where the night ended for me.

## Wrapping things up

Attending this conference was a great experience! I had a ton of fun and
learned a lot from all the talks. I would love to go to another one to
network more. Sadly, I wasn’t able to take full advantage of this
opportunity due to my nerves, which I’m a little disappointed about, but
I think I’ll do better next time. Thank you for reading this far. Make
sure to check out the talks and give the speakers a follow!
